Brief introduction to the project goals.

Since European colonization, the Canadian prairies have undergone significant environmental changes. (1) Hunting and trapping removed keystone species, such as the Plains Bison (Bison bison bison), (2) 80% of the prairie was converted to agriculture, and (3) the remaining native prairie was degraded due to intensive cattle grazing (Roch & Jaeger. 2014; Samson & Knopf. 1994). Modern land use practices (e.g., Oil and natural gas extraction and urbanization) and climate change continue to alter the prairie environment, resulting in changes to native and non-native species abundance and distributions. Due to the historic and modern patchwork of land use practices within the prairies, the land is distributed amongst Federal, Provincial, public and private quarter sections that, often results in habitat restoration and species-at-risk management projects being conducted on a small local scale with no standardized methods for monitoring success within the landscape scale (Gauthier & Wiken. 2003). By utilizing decades worth of existing datasets and GIS layers available from Government, private, academic and non-profit organizations on the current and historical raptor distribution, land use practices and other environmental parameters, a predictive model can be created that minimizes the need for costly and politically difficult traditional fieldwork while providing results at a more considerable a landscape scale. 

Monitoring raptor distribution and abundance is an efficient, cost-effective and reproducible method to indicate the biodiversity and ecosystem health within the landscape scale (Bildstein, 2001; Withaningsih et al., 2019). It is generally accepted that raptors, native grassland specialists and generalists within the Buteo genus, will positively respond to grassland restoration projects and, therefore, be an ideal focal group for monitoring changes within a broadscale community (Slankard et al. 2018).  Using species distribution models as a method for monitoring and mitigating conservation and climate change management is an emerging field of science that is continuing to evolve and has seen increasing success (Austin. 2007). Using remotely sensed indicators to create a predictive model of top predators like raptors’ abundance and distribution could improve governments, non-profit and private organizations’ abilities to prioritize areas of conservation concern and to recognize places where conservation/restoration projects have been successful (Regos et al. 2021; Rodríguez et al. 2007).
