*A maximum 1-page supplement that addresses EDI considerations and a plan for authorship for any manuscripts that are generated from the working group. In this supplement, please clearly identify the steps that will be taken to ensure broad representation and participation by diverse groups (e.g. include a plan for development of a code of conduct). Authorship considerations should explicitly state how authorship on manuscripts will be determined.*

We recognize that equity, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) principles are critical to the mitigation of systemic barriers faced by marginalized populations in academia. In order to foster an inclusive and benevolent environment within our working group, all five organizers will complete an EDI training prior to the meetings, in addition to workshops focusing on the facilitation of group discussions. Moreover, we will collaboratively write a code of conduct with clear reporting mechanisms in case of misconduct. Our code of conduct will be open to suggestions by all working group participants, who will need to endorse and sign it before the first meeting. 

Our list of participants is culturally diverse and respects gender parity. We mostly targeted students and early-career scientists who would benefit the most from a participation in this data-driven working group. We also invited researchers from different universities across Canada, making sure that their domains of expertise complement each other. With the aim of alleviating past and present inequalities experienced by marginalized groups and to encourage their participation in the working group, we will provide more funding to those who self-identified as being part of a marginalized community in our pre-session survey and provide a childcare service for mothers who would need it. Finally, participants who are unable to travel to Saskatchewan could attend the working group remotely if desired. 

During the working group meetings, we will maintain a welcoming environment by organizing icebreaker activities, spending some time in nature and working creatively using art materials. We will split participants into two subgroups to stimulate discussions and assign tasks more equitably. In the same vein, we will organize a world café and apply the 1:2:4:all facilitation technique when brainstorming new ideas during the first few days of the meetings. Furthermore, we will offer quiet break spaces, welcome flexible seating, and plan frequent movement breaks in order to take into account the needs of a neurodiverse group and avoid excessive mental fatigue. 

We will discuss authorship during the first few days of the meetings. This will ensure that everyone knows their role and expected level of implication prior to the writing of the manuscript. We will use an authorship grid that specifies who will be responsible for the study design, data management, analyses, writing, and final approval of the manuscript, as well as the communication between participants. Roles will be assigned according to the needs and interests of every participant. 

Because of their cultural significance and ecological role in the prairies, raptors are an integral part of many Indigenous people's lives. For this reason, we will approach, respectfully and with humility, one or more of the First Nation communities currently situated in Saskatchewan to take into account their traditional knowledge, concerns and study interests. We will also invite them to contribute to the study design and result interpretation. The Nekaneet Cree Nation, the Wood Mountain Lakota First Nation, and the White Bear First Nations are among the communities that we are considering approaching. In any case, we will have a mediator to bridge the gap between us. 
